This is a download from BBC Learning
English. To find out more, visit our
-website.
-[Music] Six Minute Grammar.
From the BBC.
Hello, and welcome to Six Minute Grammar
with me, Rob.
-And me, Sophie. Hello.
-Today, we're talking about comparatives
and superlatives, what they are and how to
use them.
Yes, we use comparatives and superlatives
to compare people and things. Listen
carefully because, as usual, there is a
quiz at the end of the show.
Okay, we'll start with some examples of
the comparative. So Sophie, um, can you
-stand up please?
-Okay.
-Right. Look, back to back here.
-Now, look, I'm taller than you.
-[laughs] But I'm thinner than you.
Mm, good point. The sentences, "I'm taller
than you," and, "I'm thinner than you,"
-both use the comparative form.
-We use comparatives to compare two people
-or things that are different in some way.
-Listen again to the examples we've just
-used. Where does the word than come?
-I'm taller than you. I'm thinner
-than you.
-Than comes after the comparative
adjective. We usually use than in
comparative sentences.
But not always. For example, I can ask,
"Who is taller? You or me?"
Now, there are different ways to make the
comparative form. For short words, just
add er, that's spelt E-R. So tall becomes
taller.
Thin becomes thinner.
Adjectives like happy, funny, easy, that
end in the sound E spelt with a
Y, add -ier, spelt I-E-R.
-So happy becomes happier.
-Easy becomes easier. An example please,